# TESTING THE STATE MACHINE WORKFLOW

## 1. INTRODUCTION

- Upload some files to the source S3 bucket
  - JPG image files (2, in this case)
  - Other file types (1, in this case)
- Verify if the state machine was triggered

## 2. TEST ON CONSOLE

### (A) SETTING AND EXECUTING THE TEST

#### i. UPLOAD FILES TO S3 BUCKET

- Go to the *S3* console
- Under *Buckets* list, choose the name of the bucket created to store files. In this case, *riyaz-images*
- Choose *Upload*
- Choose *Add files*
- Select a file and choose *Open*
- Choose *Add more files*
- Repeat the previous 2 steps for as many files as you want. In this case, you will repeat 2 more times
- Choose *Upload*

### (B) VERIFY THE RESULTS

#### i. VERIFY THE INITIAL BUCKET

- Go to the *S3* console
- Under *Buckets* list, choose the name of the bucket created to store files. In this case, *riyaz-images*
- Refresh the bucket
- If the bucket is empty, the test is successful

#### ii. VERIFY THE DESTINATION BUCKET

- Go to the *S3* console
- Under *Buckets* list, choose the name of the bucket created to store files. In this case, *riyaz-images-dest*
- Check if there are only 4 JPG image files:
  - 2 of them is with suffix "-small.jpg"
  - 2 original files
- If so, the test is successful

#### iii. VERIFY THE RESULTS ON STEP FUNCTION

- Go to *Step Functions* console
- Enter the previous created state machine. In this case, *imageProcessor*
- Open *Executions* tab
- Check if there are 3 executions
- Check if this 3 executions has status *Succeeded*
- If so, the test is successful
- You could look at input and output details from each execution test.
Let's look for one JPG image file, for example, entering the respective execution test

```json
// Example: one JPG image
{
  "fileType": "jpg",
  "images": [
    {
      "original": {
        "region": "us-east-1",
        "bucket": "riyaz-images-dest",
        "key": "lambda-blue.jpg"
      }
    },
    {
      "resized": {
        "region": "us-east-1",
        "bucket": "riyaz-images-dest",
        "key": "lambda-blue-small.jpg"
      }
    }
  ],
  "writeStatus": true,
  "deletionStatus": true,
}
```

#### iv. VERIFY THE RESULTS ON DYNAMO_DB

- Go to *DynamoDB* console
- Choose *Tables*
- Choose a table. In this case, *thumbnails*
- Choose *Items* tab
- Refresh the page
- Check if there are two items. If so, the test is successful

| original | thumbnail | timestamp |...
| :------: | :-------: | :-------: |...
| "us-east-1|riyaz-images-dest|lambda-blue.jpg"   | "us-east-1|riyaz-images-dest|lambda-blue-small.jpg"   | 1537343... |...
| "us-east-1|riyaz-images-dest|lambda-orange.jpg" | "us-east-1|riyaz-images-dest|lambda-orange-small.jpg" | 1537343... |...

## 3. BIBLIOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES

- [1] [Upload the files to an Amazon S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/tutorial-loading-data-upload-files.html)
- [2] [Starting a State Machine Execution in Response to Amazon S3 Events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/step-functions/latest/dg/tutorial-cloudwatch-events-s3.html)
